Update HWStatus draft from Soham (#68)
ros-controls/roadmap: design_drafts/hardware_status.md

## 3. Structured Status: `HardwareStatus`

The foundation of this approach is the `HardwareStatus` message. A single publisher per hardware component would publish `HardwareStatus` messages on the `/hardware_status` topic , each message is an array of `HardwareDeviceStatus` messages which contain the standard separated messages of a single device in the hardware component.

```
# control_msgs/msg/HardwareStatus

std_msgs/Header header        # timestamp + frame_id (optional)
string           hardware_id  # unique per‐hardware-component, ideally the name of the hardware derived from HardwareInfo e.g. "pal_arm"

# --- Device Status Aggregation ---------------------------------
# An array containing the status of individual devices in the hardware component
HardwareDeviceStatus[]     hardware_device_states
```
```
# control_msgs/msg/HardwareDeviceStatus
string           device_id  # unique per-device, e.g. "base_motor"

# --- Standard-Specific States --------------------------------------
# States populated based on the standards relevant to this device.
# A device will only fill the arrays for the standards it implements, rest will be empty

> ROS2ControlState[]     ros2control_states

Author: ```suggestion
GenericState[]     generic_hardware_status
```
The `ROS2ControlState` name doesn't add anything but confusion :/

Reviewer: makes sense

CANopenState[]         canopen_states
EtherCATState[]        ethercat_states
VDA5050State[]         vda5050_states
```

### 3.1. Standardized State Messages

Below are the proposed initial standard-specific messages, based on widely used industrial standards. Additions and opinions here would be really appreciated!

---

**`ros2_control` Generic State**

This message encapsulates the general-purpose status fields, serving as a baseline for any hardware component.

```

> # control_msgs/msg/ROS2ControlState

Author: ```suggestion
# control_msgs/msg/GenericState
```

# --- Health & Error ----------------------------------------------
uint8  health_status         # see HealthStatus enum
uint8[]  error_domain        # Array of device errors, see ErrorDomain enum

# --- Operational State -------------------------------------------
uint8  operational_mode      # see ModeStatus enum
uint8  power_state           # see PowerState enum
uint8  connectivity_status   # see ConnectivityStatus enum

# --- Vendor & Version Info ----------------------------------------
string manufacturer          # e.g. "Bosch"
string model                 # e.g. "Lidar-XYZ-v2"
string firmware_version      # e.g. "1.2.3"

# --- Optional Details for Context ---------------------------------
# Provides specific quantitative values related to the enums above.
# e.g., for power_state, could have {key: "voltage", value: "24.1"}
# e.g., for connectivity, could have {key: "signal_strength", value: "-55dBm"}
diagnostic_msgs/KeyValue[] state_details
```

#### `ROS2ControlState` Enums
```

> # control_msgs/msg/ROS2ControlState (enums)

Author: ```suggestion
# control_msgs/msg/GenericState (enums)
```

> ```

## 5. Open Questions & Discussion
1.  Is the current list of standardized state messages (`CANopen`, `EtherCAT`, `VDA5050`, `ISO10218`) a good starting point? Are there other non-proprietary standards that are critical to include?

> 2.  And the questions that I have had, Is this whole approach overly complicated, let's avoid that pitfall.

Author: ```suggestion
2.  Is this whole approach overly complicated? It would be good to avoid that pitfall.
```

What if ros2_control made a set of messages to standardize it's interfaces for each subcategory?
[SensorMsgs](https://docs.ros2.org/foxy/api/sensor_msgs/index-msg.html) is a start of what we need.
For example the UR controller exposes lots of interfaces via [GPIO](https://github.com/UniversalRobots/Universal_Robots_ROS2_Description/blob/85d2ad8d1526ee6c0f21dca94e1e697c83706b71/urdf/ur.ros2_control.xacro#L294-L311) but not in a standardized way so if someone wanted to control it and then switch robots their codebase would likely need to change to handle auxiliary control and monitoring.

Some errors or states will be set as the hardware stops functioning.
Should the status broadcaster hold and continue to publish last known state?
Should the status broadcaster offer statistics on hardware DEACTIVATE/ERROR and ACTIVATIONS?
Lots of industrial applications would like to know how many e-stops, number of controller errors/faults, ____ per shift, week or some period of time
Could this open the option for custom or standard controllers to monitor and keep the system healthy? i.e. automatic arm fault reset controller,

> Links of hardware interfaces and their attempt to convey hardware status and support other control modes

Author: shouldn't we keep these here? they are good references

Reviewer: that works as well, refer [2c2fece](https://github.com/ros-controls/roadmap/pull/68/commits/2c2fecefd7df5c26c94c72052e42f7043c69345a)
